\chapter{Related Work}

In the past two decades many new efficient functional data structures
have been developed. Some of the purely functional data structures
implemented for Typed Racket in this thesis are available in other
functional languages such as ML, OCaml, Haskell and Clojure. All the
data structures implemented for this work were originally implemented in
one of these languages. In addition, some of the data structures were
available in plain Racket.

\section{In Other Languages}

Original implementations of the data structures presented by \citet{oka}
are in ML and Haskell \citep{okas-mlhkl}. The implementation of these
data structures are also available in OCaml \citep{mottl}. VLists and
others \citep{bagwell-lists} were implemented in a variant of Lisp and
OCaml.

The built-in data structures available in Clojure \citep{hickey}, a new
dialect of Lisp for the Java Virtual Machine, are functional data
structures. For example, the hash map/set and vector implementations
available in Clojure are based on array mapped hash tries
\citep{bagwell-tries}.

\section{In Racket}

%The data structures implemented in Typed Racket for this work are
%faithful to the original implementations and provide additional utility
%functions for each data structure.

%Other than the library developed in this work,
Racket's existing collection of user-provided libraries, PLaneT
\citep{planet}, contains an implementation of Random Access
Lists~\footnote{\url{http://planet.plt-scheme.org/display.ss?package=ralist.plt&owner=dvanhorn}},
an implementation of pairing
heaps~\footnote{\url{http://planet.plt-scheme.org/display.ss?package=pairing-heap.plt&owner=wmfarr}},
as well as a collection of a small number of functional data structures
\footnote{\url{http://planet.plt-scheme.org/display.ss?package=galore.plt&owner=soegaard}}. The
functional data structures developed for this thesis provide more
utility functions and also the benchmarks show that they perform better
than the functional data structures available from PLaneT.
